so we just came back from Firefly and
we're back at rosso and we're gonna go
ahead and make a traditional Italian
pasta recipe called penne alla vodka and
since we were just at Firefly I figured
we'd use Firefly vodka market friends
this is a really simple recipe with very
few ingredients we've got plum tomatoes
I use a little bit of tomato paste to
kind of pump up the tomato flavor garlic
salt pepper vodka of course cream butter
and penne pasta so the first thing we're
gonna do since I'm using whole San
Marzano tomatoes is we're gonna puree
them a little bit so we have our sauce
now you can use tomato puree if you want
straight from the store that works just
fine this is what I have at the
restaurant and I like to use these I
think they're pretty flavorful so we're
gonna just slowly blend this a little
bit now if you do this also at home I
want to make sure of one thing
do not over blend it because whatever
it'll do is it'll pump air into it and
turn it into this pink mess it'll taste
the same but it won't taste the same you
kind of lose the the the intensity of
the tomatoes once it kind of aerates it
so I'm gonna go ahead and I'm gonna add
a little bit Abell spoon or so of tomato
paste that kind of adds that
concentrated flavor because what we're
gonna end up doing is watering down the
tomato flavor a little bit with the
vodka and the cream
I like my vodka sauce with a lot of
garlic in it also but I don't like bits
of garlic this is kind of a bit of an
elegant sauce so all I do is I basically
take about eight to ten cloves of garlic
give em a good whack breaks them open
put them in the pan and we're going to
go over set them on the range get them
sauteing a little bit all right we've
got our garlic in the pan we're need
some extra virgin olive oil and you can
use extra virgin olive oil I don't care
what people have told you about not
being able to cook with it it works just
fine for cooking we're gonna go ahead
and we're gonna let this garlic Brown a
little bit and release all this flavor
all right
garlic is browning really nicely now
we're gonna add the tomato now be very
careful when you do this you want to get
your Tomatoes close to it cuz it will
spatter up all right
so this all this brown garlic is gonna
infuse this tomato puree with its flavor
but it's still just tomato puree so make
sure you season we're gonna season with
salt I always used kosher salt because
it's got a good feel to it it's flaky
you can pinch a lot of it and control
how much you're putting in all right now
we're gonna add some black pepper
we're gonna put in some red pepper
flakes now I like my vodka sauce a
little bit on the spicy side so we're
gonna add a little extra since it's mine
we've got our penne pasta cooking over
here in some nice salty water always
remember that your salt I mean your
water should be as salty as the
Mediterranean all right now we're gonna
add the vodka
and we're gonna let this simmer and let
all those flavors from the garlic salt
and pepper get in there if you tasted it
now you'd kind of have a vodka
definitely a Bloody Mary vodka kick to
it but we're gonna let all the vodkas
simmer out of this all the alcohol so
now it's reduced quite a bit it's
getting thicker so we're gonna go ahead
and put it in our cream
all right you know mix it in right now
probably have about two and a half cups
or so of sauce and I just put in about
3/4 of a cup of heavy cream our pasta is
almost done now as I told you earlier we
don't want to keep the garlic chunks in
there so what I'm gonna do is using my
slotted spoon I'm gonna go ahead and I'm
gonna remove my garlic now we may miss a
piece or two but that's not a big deal
it is garlic after all and when we love
garlic
our pasta done we're going to go ahead
and add that to the sauce
and drain it well
we're gonna go ahead and we're gonna
allow this pasta to cook in the sauce
for a little while so it absorbs some of
the sauce now I've took the pasta out
when it was al dente so it's still got
some bite to it probably a little more
bite than you would normally serve right
off the bat but it's gonna cook a little
bit longer all right now we're gonna put
some cheese in there because it wouldn't
be pasta without cheese we've got some
pecorino romano you could use
parmigiano-reggiano we'll keep a little
bit on the side for when we put it on
the table so we're to go ahead and mix
that in that'll thicken the sauce a
little bit more adds that depth of
flavor that you can only get with a hard
dried cheese I think we're ready to go
here to written it up a little bit we're
going to go ahead we're going to mix in
a little bit of unsalted butter
all right here we go penne alla vodka we
can just put all of it in here using
Firefly vodka from Wadmalaw Island we'll
finish it with a little bit more cheese
a little pecorino romano a little bit of
fresh parsley gremolata
and there you go penne alla vodka
straight to the table thanks for
watching off menu